Hello, everyone.
This is going to be a fairly quick listen, I just want to make a few minor adjustments to our search
overlay before we move on and continue to learn more about the rest API.
The first change I want to make in this lesson has to do with the starter HTML of our overlay.
So I'm referring to just this main overlay div and the actual text input field here.
Now at the moment this HTML lives in our footer dot file.
However, now that we know a bit more about JavaScript, I think it would make more sense to move this
HTML into our search JS file.
It will help us stay organized.
And also if someone comes to the website and they have JavaScript disabled in that case, it doesn't
make sense to send them the extra few bytes for this HTML because they will never even see it or be
able to open up the overlay in the first place.
So long story short, let's jump into our text editor and in our theme folder, let's jump in to footer
BHP.
And if we scroll down to the very bottom here, we see the search overlay div.
So why don't we go ahead and move this HTML out of this footer file and into our search JS file.
So I'm just going to select this entire search overlay div and cut it into my clipboard.
Go ahead and save this file and then let's jump in to our JavaScript modules folder and open up search
J.S..
So the question now is, how can we use JavaScript to add that HTML to the very bottom of the page?
Right.
We want to add it on to the end of the body element.
Well, here's how I would do that.
I would just create a new method in this search JS file, so I would just scroll down to the very bottom.
At the moment, this is the last method I've got listed, so this is the curly bracket for this method
and this is the closing curly bracket for the entire class.
So how about in between those?
We can just create a brand new method.
We can name it whatever we want.
Why don't we call it and search each HTML parentheses, curly brackets?
And within the body of this method, I would just use query to select the overall body element and then
I would use the J query append method.
Append is how you can add HTML to the very end of an element semicolon at the end here and then within
the parentheses for append instead of quotes to create a string instead of quotes.
I would use back Tick's because then we can break down to new lines just like regular HTML.
So just to stay organized in between the back ticks, I would drop down and now it's just as simple
as pasting in our clipboard.
OK, at this point, this method is good to go, but remember that the code within a function isn't
actually executed until you call the function.
So now that we've created this method, let's go back up to the very top of this file.
And in the constructor function, we need to actually call and run the method.
Now, in this case, the ordering does matter.
So let's call that new method up at the very top of our constructor so we can just say this dot and
search each HTML.
The reason we need to do this at the very beginning of our constructor is because otherwise these elements
that we're looking for here won't even exist yet.
Right.
So, for example, this search field property is looking for an element that has an idea of search term,
but that element won't even exist in the browsers, Dom, until this code has had a chance to run.
OK, so at this point, we can go ahead and save this file.
And if I jump over to the browser and open up the overlay, it still works and I can still search for
Buyology.
And the results still make sense.
Perfect.
All right, let's change gears.
And we actually just saw an example of the next thing I want to change.
So, for example, if I now search for Lorem in terms of lorem ipsum, we saw that the loader spinner
icon displays for quite a long time, and that's because I never adjusted it lower from its initial
two thousand millisecond value.
So let's do that right now.
So back in our code in Search Jass, if we scroll down to our typing logic method.
On this line of code where we are saying this typing timer equals we see that I'm still using a value
of 2000 milliseconds and I think that's a bit too long.
So I'm going to change this to seven hundred and fifty milliseconds.
Right.
Just three quarters of a second.
And let's see, I think that should feel a lot better.
So now when I search, you can see as soon as I start typing, it's a much shorter wait.
And I think that feels a lot nicer for end users.
OK, let's change gears again.
The next thing I want to work on now is when someone opens up the search overlay.
I think the TextField should be automatically focused, meaning my cursor should already be placed in
that field automatically so I can start typing instead of having to actually manually click onto the
TextField.
So to make that happen, back in our Search Jass file, let's scroll down to our open overlay method.
Right.
This is responsible for adding the class that makes the overlay div visible.
So as soon as these two lines of code that are responsible for adding classes run right after those
lines on a new line here.
Let's just say this dot search field, right.
This is a property we created up in the constructor that points towards the TextField.
And then on that element, we can just use the query method named Focus, and that will place the user's
cursor within that field and they can immediately begin typing.
However, if I go ahead and say this and test it out in the browser, you'll notice that if I open the
overlay, the text field is not successfully focused.
I'm typing and nothing's happening and I still have to manually click on to that field.
Now, this might not be the case in all Web browsers, but for a lot of browsers, including this version
of Google Chrome, the text field is not being successfully focused because when this new line of code
ran where we are trying to focus the field, the overlay as a whole was not even visible yet because
you'll notice that the overlay does not appear or disappear immediately.
It takes about 300 milliseconds to fade in and fade out.
So back in our code, instead of trying to focus the text field immediately, as soon as the open overlay
method fires instead, why don't we wait 301 milliseconds so that CFS transition is complete?
Or in other words, let's wait until the Web browser actually considers this element visible before
we try to focus it.
So here's what I would do.
Let's cut this new line into our clipboard, this line with the DOT focus.
And in its place, let's just set up a set time out and remember, set time out takes two arguments.
The first is a function that you want to run, and the second argument is how many milliseconds you
want to wait before actually running that.
So why don't we wait 300 in one milliseconds?
That will be just enough time for that success, fade in and fade out to be complete.
And then instead of the X, let's just create an anonymous function.
So function parentheses, curly brackets, and then within the curly brackets you can just paste in
your clipboard.
Now this code will indeed work, but I want to show you how we can save a bit of extra typing here.
Instead of actually spelling out the word function, we can use the S6 Arrow function syntax.
So to do that, we can just delete the word function, but keep the parentheses right after it.
So delete function.
We don't need any parameter so we can leave the parentheses empty.
But right after the parentheses we can just say equal sign greater than to create an arrow symbol.
And then if we're going to write all of the code on a single line like this, we do not need the curly
brackets to indicate the body of the function.
So since we're on a single line, let's just delete these curly brackets here.
And in that case, we also don't need the ending semicolon right here.
OK, so now the code is a bit cleaner.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
If I click on to the overlay.
Perfect.
You can see the text cursor is already blinking and I can just immediately start typing.
This is especially nice because now if someone uses the ASCII shortcut to open up the overlay, they
don't even need to touch their mouse.
They can just immediately begin typing.
All right.
Now, let's change gears again and let's work on the final edit for this lesson.
I want to set things up so that if you perform a search and then close the overlay and then reopened
the overlay, I think it would be nice if the text field was emptied out for you so you can just immediately
begin searching for something else instead of having to manually select it all and delete it.
So to make that happen back in our code right before the set time outline, let's just add a new line
of code and we can just target the search field.
So this dot search field and then let's use queries, Val, which stands for value, let's use the VAL
method and then we can just set it to an empty pair of single quotes.
Let's add a semicolon at the end of the line and then go ahead and save that.
So now I can open up the overlay search for biology.
Maybe I'm not happy with the results so I can close the overlay, keep browsing the site and then if
I open up the overlay again, the field is automatically emptied for me and I can just perform another
search.
Perfect.
And that's going to bring this lesson to a close.
In our next lesson, we will learn more about the WordPress rest API.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you then.